now Israel's Military Intelligence Chief
has stood down after saying that he
takes full responsibility for the laps
in Security on October the 7th let's get
more on this breaking news story with
Bernard Smith he's an occupied East
Jerusalem so militarily the heads have
started to
role so yes Aron haliva is the head of
military intelligence Decades of
experience and was in charge on October
7th when Hamas launched that assault
into Israel uh the most devastating
assault that Israel has uh has happened
in Israel since the country's foundation
in 1948 now we now know that since then
the reason that was allowed to happen
was largely because of a spectacular
failure of military intelligence we now
know that for up to a year before the
Hamas attack on October the 7th the
Israeli intelligence had had hands on a
document that pretty much detailed how
October the 7th would pan out we know
that spotters Israeli military spotters
in the towers around Gaza have been
reporting for months that they'd seen
activity in Gaza that looked like uh
Hamas and other fighting groups were
rehearsing preparing for some sort of
attack on Israel all of that was ignored
it was all ignored because there was a
belief We Now understand right at the
top of military intelligence and
conveyed and held by the Israeli
government that Hamas did not want or
was not in the market for looking to
attack Israel it was more interested in
governing Gaza well we now know that
that was not the case and Aon haliva is
the first well he accepted
responsibility I think about a week or
so after October the 7th but has stayed
in post during the war in Gaza he's
going to stay in post now in fact until
a replacement has been found but he is
the most senior leader to resign he's
called in his resignation for a national
Commission of inquiry to be established
into what led up to October 7th to
highlight and expose the failures the
government has yet to do that the
government says it wants to concentrate
on the war in Gaza but many accuse prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu are
deliberately prolonging that war because
he also does not want to face up to any
responsibility he might have for October
the seven I'm sure we'll be hearing a
lot more of this in the coming hours for
the moment Bernard thank
you Major General Aaron haliva is the
first senior Israeli figure to quit
following the hammer attack well let's
bring inar sh he been following events
with us here from the Doha Institute for
Graduate Studies interesting departure
at the top of the Israeli military brass
quite interesting yeah it's uh somebody
had to take the fall for sth of October
I think it's quite high level in terms
of the the top of the military
intelligence uh although the the the
issue was was more of the intelligence
cycle because they had the information
they had the they saw the preparations
the these preparations were reported by
Junior um intelligence analysts uh but
it was not uh it did not reach the top
Ross because it it was thought that it's
not significant enough and what they're
seeing maybe Hamas is willing to do
something like that but it's incapable
of doing so so it was an underestimation
of the capabilities of the Kasam
battalions in terms of the sort of prism
in which we view Israel and how it likes
to be viewed by the International
Community it's under quite some pressure
really now we're hearing of this
military uh uh General uh being removed
or or resigning but also a battalion
also being sanctioned by the us there is
pressure and a little bit more pressure
yeah absolutely but the the that
Battalion particularly the 97 Battalion
of the kar Brigade of the 900s Brigade
uh it's a sort of a Battalion in a semi-
Rog Brigade uh it's not the first time
um it was accused of U beating uh a
Palestinian American citizen who after
that died after a heart attack which uh
made uh which this was in January 2022
so the US was sustaining pressures since
then and demanded that uh uh some
sanctions get applied to this uh or
discipline get applied to this uh
Battalion particularly and the Israeli
response was uh was that we're going to
deploy this Battalion this infantry
battalion uh from the West Bank uh to
the Golden Heights so put them under the
northern command um it was done on paper
but we're not sure if that actually
happened they stayed in the West Bank
and after the 7th of October they were
deployed uh in Gaza and uh apparently
there there are some quite a few
violations that were recorded there as
well so that increased the pressure uh
to do something something about about
this Battalion in terms of the overall
viewing of the Israeli military at the
moment whether it be the West Bank or
Gaza do you think the spotlight is more
on them now not just by the United
States but by by the EU for example I
mean if America's going to put some
sanctions on this particular Battalion
normally the EU follows suits as well oh
absolutely after all this this level of
Destruction uh this levels of multiple
allegations against Crime for for crimes
against humanity um that level of force
concentration Firepower concentration in
areas that are U civilian areas widely
populated with uh with women children
elderly uh after all this so you'll
probably have some significant political
pressures on on the Israeli government
uh but historically the Israeli
government has been quite defined in
resisting such pressures and uh acting
according to their plans which does not
include the uh human rights uh
reservation of the Palestinians for sure
we should see what happens in the coming
for the moment Omar thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaaz